# ImagesSpeedDating
This code is written and owned by Danny Beck, he doesn't have a github

Electronic Speed Dating
Overview/How to use:
	Electronic Speed Dating is a google script that will automatically score speed dating sessions. Although this guide is meant to be more about how to use it than how it works here is a brief overview of what the script is doing. When you run electronic speed dating the first time it will “install” itself. This is the process of creating all the sheets that it will need to run and name them in a way that it can find them. Every other time you run you will see a menu that gives you the options to Run, Reinput parameters, Reset the sheet, or cancel. Run will run the electronic speed dating code, it will ask you for parameters if these are not given. Reinput parameters will allow you to change the parameters to run the code with. The parameters mirror the decisions you made earlier and the layout of the qualtrics sheet. Reset will delete everything, I would recommend leaving this one alone but it is there if you want it. Cancel will do nothing. To run one of these command you type it into the prompt. Once you install electronic speed dating there will be a data sheet where you can copy and paste the qualtrics results in. You can get the Qualtrics data by going to your survey and then hitting data & analysis. Download the data as a csv by hitting Export & Import then export data. In the pop up that appears select CSV and check the boxes for Download all fields and use choice text (if they aren’t already hit). Open the downloaded csv file with excel so you can copy the cells to google sheets. Qualtrics stores a bunch of data that you do not actually need so when you copy in the data copy from the name of the first applicant to the bottom right corner of the data. Paste this data so that the first name is in the A1 box. When you actually run electronics speed dating it takes three steps to find the final scores. The first step is to separate the responses into which night the applicant is listed on. Electronic speed dating will create a new sheet for each night, copy the applicants for that night to that sheet and then sort them by seat number. The second step is to “packetize” the responses. This step splits the data into each interaction between applicants and imagers. It does this by going over the sheet in a diagonal fashion. Given that the seat numbers are in order and the applicants go in increasing seat number order, this causes the script to follow the same path that the applicant does. The script creates a new line in a new sheet for each of these interactions. This sheet is the best for viewing the comments an applicant receives because you will also be able to see the score and imager corresponding to that comment. The final step taken by the script is to recompile the scores into one sheet, average and sum them to get the final numeric scores.
If things break and how to fix them:
	Here is the list of all the things that have broken in electronic speed dating in my two semesters as Coord. These are (by design) relatively easy to fix if you know what to look for.

An imager’s phone dies, their partner with the phone leaves early, qualtrics is being buggy or any other reason that they have to finish the survey on paper:
	I brought paper scantron backups to all the speed datings in case for any reason they were needed. A few times imagers had to fill out the rest of the survey on paper. I would not try to fix technical difficulties while trying to run the event. Instead I would recommend giving the paper backup as your goto to solve the problem. If this happens you will have to close the partially completed response in qualtrics. This can be done by going to your survey then the data & analysis tab. Click the note on the right that says responses in progress. Click with selected on the left and hit close. When you export the data to excel you will have a partially complete row. You must go in and add the scores from the imager’s paper sheet to the row corresponding to their qualtrics entries.

The above issues you will know if they happen. The following issues might happen without you spotting them at the event. These are still important to detect and fix. If you go into the packetized sheet in electronic speed dating and the name boxes are not grouped it is very likely that one of the below things (in order of likelihood) happened.
	The most common issue with electronic speed dating is imagers not giving an empty seat all 1s. This is stressed multiple times but it will happen anyways and will mess up the scores. The imager will figure out that they forgot to do this when you do the check to make sure everyone is on the same question. If they are behind it is easier to have them put a blank entry at the question check than to have them go back and fix it. I would recommend making a note of who messed up and when they messed up as this will make it easier to fix later. If the imager does not realize that they messed up they will have a blank entry at the end of the sheet and you may have to close their response in qualtrics. See appendix B for what this issue looks like and how to fix it. This issue could happen more than once in a night so don’t be confused if you see multiple mess ups.
	
	Applicants could also skip an imager and end up moving where the empty spot should be. This happened in the Spring but not the fall because we paid more attention to it. This issue will look similar in the packetized tab but instead of just one box of the group being messed up the entire rest of the group (after the questions where things got messed up) will have the wrong applicants data. Identify the question where things got messed up and where the empty seat should go using the same method as in Appendix B. Then you will have to move the empty seat (again as we did in Appendix B) not only for that question but for the remainder of the questions in the night. This can be a hassle so I would recommend keeping tabs on the empty seat to make sure this doesn’t occur.

	In the fall we had an issue where an imager filled out two forms because her first one broke and she wanted to continue scoring. Fortunately she told us after the event this was what she had done. To fix this issue we closed both her surveys, manually put her second responses into the rest of the first responses boxes (The qualtrics surveys are timestamped so we knew the order) and then ran electronic speed dating normally.
If things break and the previous section didn’t help:
If you have to get to here you are in trouble. This means you have run into a serious problem that has not come up yet. You are welcome to try and figure it out yourself but the point of this section is to outline what to do if everything fails and you need to just recover and get the scores. You should still have the data from qualtrics in excel. Copy and paste the data into a new sheet as if you were pasting it into the electronic speed dating sheet. Delete all the columns before the first score (the ones with the general information). At this point you will not be able to match that information up anyways. Figure out the number of columns each question takes up. This should be from the first score to the comments box. For each set of columns taken up by a question copy those columns and paste the data below the first sets data. You can delete the sets of columns as you go to make sure you get them all and don’t duplicate any of them. You should now have one set of columns with scores, names then comments. Sort this data on the names column. You will now have to go through and fix where Imagers put nicknames and misspelled names. Sort the columns again to group the data. Now that the scores for each applicant are grouped you can add them up and record them in a different spreadsheet.

